docs/reference/query-dsl/full-text-queries.asciidoc, before:

[[full-text-queries]]
== Full text queries

The full text queries enable you to search <<analysis,analyzed text fields>> such as the 
body of an email. The query string is processed using the same analyzer that was applied to 
the field during indexing. 

The queries in this group are:

<<query-dsl-intervals-query,`intervals` query>>::
A full text query that allows fine-grained control of the ordering and
proximity of matching terms.

<<query-dsl-match-query,`match` query>>::
The standard query for performing full text queries, including fuzzy matching
and phrase or proximity queries.

<<query-dsl-match-bool-prefix-query,`match_bool_prefix` query>>::
Creates a `bool` query that matches each term as a `term` query, except for
the last term, which is matched as a `prefix` query

<<query-dsl-match-query-phrase,`match_phrase` query>>::
Like the `match` query but used for matching exact phrases or word proximity matches.
    
<<query-dsl-match-query-phrase-prefix,`match_phrase_prefix` query>>::
Like the `match_phrase` query, but does a wildcard search on the final word.
  
<<query-dsl-multi-match-query,`multi_match` query>>::
The multi-field version of the `match` query.

<<query-dsl-query-string-query,`query_string` query>>::
Supports the compact Lucene <<query-string-syntax,query string syntax>>,
allowing you to specify AND|OR|NOT conditions and multi-field search
within a single query string. For expert users only.

<<query-dsl-simple-query-string-query,`simple_query_string` query>>::
A simpler, more robust version of the `query_string` syntax suitable
for exposing directly to users.


include::intervals-query.asciidoc[]

include::match-query.asciidoc[]

include::match-bool-prefix-query.asciidoc[]

include::match-phrase-query.asciidoc[]

include::match-phrase-prefix-query.asciidoc[]

include::multi-match-query.asciidoc[]

include::query-string-query.asciidoc[]

include::simple-query-string-query.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Introduce `combined_fields` query (#71213)
This PR introduces a new query called `combined_fields` for searching multiple
text fields. It takes a term-centric view, first analyzing the query string
into individual terms, then searching for each term any of the fields as though
they were one combined field. It is based on Lucene's `CombinedFieldQuery`,
which takes a principled approach to scoring based on the BM25F formula.

This query provides an alternative to the `cross_fields` `multi_match` mode. It
has simpler behavior and a more robust approach to scoring.

Addresses #41106.

docs/reference/query-dsl/full-text-queries.asciidoc, after:

[[full-text-queries]]
== Full text queries

The full text queries enable you to search <<analysis,analyzed text fields>> such as the
body of an email. The query string is processed using the same analyzer that was applied to
the field during indexing.

The queries in this group are:

<<query-dsl-intervals-query,`intervals` query>>::
A full text query that allows fine-grained control of the ordering and
proximity of matching terms.

<<query-dsl-match-query,`match` query>>::
The standard query for performing full text queries, including fuzzy matching
and phrase or proximity queries.

<<query-dsl-match-bool-prefix-query,`match_bool_prefix` query>>::
Creates a `bool` query that matches each term as a `term` query, except for
the last term, which is matched as a `prefix` query

<<query-dsl-match-query-phrase,`match_phrase` query>>::
Like the `match` query but used for matching exact phrases or word proximity matches.

<<query-dsl-match-query-phrase-prefix,`match_phrase_prefix` query>>::
Like the `match_phrase` query, but does a wildcard search on the final word.

<<query-dsl-multi-match-query,`multi_match` query>>::
The multi-field version of the `match` query.

<<query-dsl-combined-fields-query,`combined_fields` query>>::
Matches over multiple fields as if they had been indexed into one combined field.

<<query-dsl-query-string-query,`query_string` query>>::
Supports the compact Lucene <<query-string-syntax,query string syntax>>,
allowing you to specify AND|OR|NOT conditions and multi-field search
within a single query string. For expert users only.

<<query-dsl-simple-query-string-query,`simple_query_string` query>>::
A simpler, more robust version of the `query_string` syntax suitable
for exposing directly to users.


include::intervals-query.asciidoc[]

include::match-query.asciidoc[]

include::match-bool-prefix-query.asciidoc[]

include::match-phrase-query.asciidoc[]

include::match-phrase-prefix-query.asciidoc[]

include::combined-fields-query.asciidoc[]

include::multi-match-query.asciidoc[]

include::query-string-query.asciidoc[]

include::simple-query-string-query.asciidoc[]
