rest-api-spec/src/yamlRestTest/resources/rest-api-spec/test/README.asciidoc, before:

Test Suite:
===========

[NOTE]
.Required settings
=======================================
Certain tests require specific settings to be applied to the
Elasticsearch instance in order to pass. You should run
Elasticsearch as follows:

[source,sh]
---------------------
bin/elasticsearch -Enode.attr.testattr=test -Epath.repo=/tmp -Erepositories.url.allowed_urls='http://snapshot.*'
---------------------

=======================================

Test file structure
--------------------

A YAML test file consists of:

- an optional `setup` section, followed by
- an optional `teardown` section, followed by
- one or more test sections

For instance:

    setup:
      - do: ....
      - do: ....

    ---
    teardown:
      - do: ....

    ---
    "First test":
      - do: ...
      - match: ...

    ---
    "Second test":
      - do: ...
      - match: ...


A `setup` section contains a list of commands to run before each test
section in order to setup the same environment for each test section.

A `teardown` section contains a list of commands to run after each test
section in order to setup the same environment for each test section. This
may be needed for modifications made by the test that are not cleared by the
deletion of indices and templates.

A test section represents an independent test, containing multiple `do`
statements and assertions. The contents of a test section must be run in
order, but individual test sections may be run in any order, as follows:

1. run `setup` (if any)
2. reset the `response` var and the `stash` (see below)
2. run test contents
3. run `teardown` (if any)
4. delete all indices and all templates

Dot notation:
-------------
Dot notation is used for (1) method calls and (2) hierarchical data structures. For
instance, a method call like `cluster.health` would do the equivalent of:

    client.cluster.health(...params...)

A test against `_tokens.1.token` would examine the `token` key, in the second element
of the `tokens` array, inside the `response` var (see below):

    $val = $response->{tokens}[1]{token}  # Perl syntax roolz!

If one of the levels (eg `tokens`) does not exist, it should return an undefined value.
If no field name is given (ie the empty string) then return the current
$val -- used for testing the whole response body.

Use \. to specify paths that actually contain '.' in the key name, for example
in the `indices.get_settings` API.

Skipping tests:
---------------
If a test section should only be run on certain versions of Elasticsearch,
then the first entry in the section (after the title) should be called
`skip`, and should contain the range of versions to be
skipped, and the reason why the tests are skipped. For instance:

....
    "Parent":
     - skip:
          version:     "0.20.1 - 0.90.2"
          reason:      Delete ignores the parent param

     - do:
       ... test definitions ...
....

All tests in the file following the skip statement should be skipped if:
`min <= current <= max`.

The `version` range can leave either bound empty, which means "open ended".
For instance:
....
    "Parent":
     - skip:
          version:     "1.0.0.Beta1 - "
          reason:      Delete ignores the parent param

     - do:
       ... test definitions ...
....

The value for version can also be `all`, to skip in any version of
Elasticsearch. This can be used for example when a feature is being implemented
or awaiting a fix.

`skip` can also be used at the top level of the file in the `setup` block, so
all the tests in a file will be skipped if the condition applies.

The skip section can also be used to list new features that need to be
supported in order to run a test. This way the up-to-date runners will
run the test, while the ones that don't support the feature yet can
temporarily skip it, and avoid having lots of test failures in the meantime.
Once all runners have implemented the feature, it can be declared supported
by default, thus the related skip sections can be removed from the tests.

The skip section can also be used to selectively mute tests in certain
cases where they would otherwise fail, see `default_shards` and `fips_140`.

....
    "Parent":
     - skip:
          features:    regex

     - do:
       ... test definitions ...
....

The `features` field can either be a string or an array of strings.

The skip section can also be used to mute tests for certain operating systems.
This way it is not necessary to mute the whole test if a operating system
specific problem appears.

The operating system is taken from the pretty name that elasticsearch reports
using the `GET /_nodes` API. To obtain the name from a CI build grep the logs
for:

`initializing client, minimum es version`

When muting by operating system, a reason is mandatory and features must contain
skip_os:

....
    "Parent":
     - skip:
          features: skip_os
          os:       debian-8
          reason:   memory accounting problems on debian 8, see gh#xyz

     - do:
       ... test definitions ...
....

The `os` field can either be a string or an array of strings.

The skip section requires to specify either a `version`, `features` or `os` list.

=== Available Features

=== `xpack`
Requires x-pack to be enabled on the `Elasticsearch` instance the rest test is running against

=== `no_xpack`
Requires the test to run against an oss distribution of `Elasticsearch`

=== `catch_unauthorized`

Runner supports `catch: unauthorized` on a `do` operator.

=== `default_shards`

This test can only run if the cluster is running with the distributions default number of shards.

The Java test runner introduces randomness and sometimes overrides the default number of shards to `2`.
If the default number of shards is changed, test marked with this feature should *not* run

=== `headers`

The runner is able to set per request headers on the `do` operation

=== `node_selector`

Indicates the runner can parse `node_selector` under the `do` operator and use its metadata to select the node to
perform the `do` operation on.

=== `stash_in_key`

Allows you to use a stashed value in any key of an object during a `match` assertion

....
- set: {nodes.$master.http.publish_address: host}
- match:
    $body:
      {
        "nodes": {
          $host: {
            ... stuff in here ...
          }
        }
     }
....

=== `stash_in_path`

Allows a stashed value to be referenced in path lookups as a single token. E.g:

....
path.$stash.value
....

=== `embedded_stash_key`

Allows a stashed key to appear anywhere in the path (note the placeholder needs to be within curly brackets too in this case):

....
field1.e${placeholder}ments.element1
....

=== `stash_path_replace`
Used only in the doc snippet tests. Allow you to do ease replacements using a special `$_path` marker.

....
// TESTRESPONSEs/somevalue/$body.${_path}/ to mean "replace
somevalue with whatever is the response in the same position."
....

=== `warnings`

The runner can assert specific warnings headers are returned by Elasticsearch through the `warning:` assertations
under `do:`  operations. The test will fail if the warning is not found.

=== `warnings_regex`

The same as `warnings`, but matches warning headers with the given regular expression.


=== `allowed_warnings`

The runner will allow specific warnings headers to be returned by Elasticsearch through the `allowed_warning:` assertations
under `do:`  operations. The test will not fail if the warning is not found.

=== `allowed_warnings_regex`

The same as `allowed_warnings`, but matches warning headers with the given regular expression.

=== `yaml`

The runner is able to send and receive `application/yaml` and perform all assertions on the returned data.

=== `contains`

Asserts an array of object contains an object with a property set to a certain value. e.g:

...
contains:  { nodes.$master.plugins: { name: painless-whitelist } }
...

Asserts the plugins array contains an object with a `name` property with the value `painless-whitelist`

=== `transform_and_set`

Supports the `transform_and_set` operator as described in this document.

=== `arbitrary_key`

Allows you to stash an arbitrary key from a returned map e.g:

....
- set:
    nodes._arbitrary_key_: node_id
....

This means: Stash any of the keys returned under `nodes` as `$node_id`

=== `fips_140`

This test should not be run when the test cluster is set in FIPS 140 mode.

Required operators:
-------------------

=== `do`

The `do` operator calls a method on the client. For instance:

....
    - do:
        cluster.health:
            level: shards
....

The response from the `do` operator should be stored in the `response` var, which
is reset (1) at the beginning of a file or (2) on the next `do`.

If the arguments to `do` include `catch`, then we are expecting an error, which should
be caught and tested. For instance:

....
    - do:
        catch:        missing
        get:
            index:    test
            type:    test
            id:        1
....

The argument to `catch` can be any of:

[horizontal]
`bad_request`::     a 400 response from ES
`unauthorized`::    a 401 response from ES
`forbidden`::       a 403 response from ES
`missing`::         a 404 response from ES
`request_timeout`:: a 408 response from ES
`conflict`::        a 409 response from ES
`request`::         a 4xx-5xx error response from ES, not equal to any named response
                    above
`unavailable`::     a 503 response from ES
`param`::           a client-side error indicating an unknown parameter has been passed
                    to the method
`/foo bar/`::       the text of the error message matches this regular expression

If `catch` is specified, then the `response` var must be cleared, and the test
should fail if no error is thrown.

If the arguments to `do` include `warnings` then we are expecting a `Warning`
header to come back from the request. If the arguments *don't* include a
`warnings` argument then we *don't* expect the response to include a `Warning`
header. The warnings must match exactly. Using it looks like this:

....
    - do:
        warnings:
            - '[index] is deprecated'
            - quotes are not required because yaml
            - but this argument is always a list, never a single string
            - no matter how many warnings you expect
        get:
            index:    test
            type:    test
            id:        1
....

If the arguments to `do` include `allowed_warnings` then matching `Warning`
headers do not fail the request. Unlike the `warnings` argument, these aren't
expected so much as "allowed". This usually comes up in backwards compatibility
testing. Using it looks like this:

....
    - do:
        allowed_warnings:
            - some warning
            - this argument is also always a list, never a single string
            - no matter how many warnings you expect
        get:
            index:    test
            type:    test
            id:        1
....

If the arguments to `do` include `node_selector` then the request is only
sent to nodes that match the `node_selector`. It looks like this:

....
"test id":
 - skip:
      features: node_selector
 - do:
      node_selector:
          version: " - 6.9.99"
      index:
          index:  test-weird-index-中文
          type:   weird.type
          id:     1
          body:   { foo: bar }
....

If you list multiple selectors then the request will only go to nodes that
match all of those selectors. The following selectors are supported:

- `version`: Only nodes who's version is within the range will receive the
request. The syntax for the pattern is the same as when `version` is within
`skip`.
- `attribute`: Only nodes that have an attribute matching the name and value
of the provided attribute match.
Looks like:
....
      node_selector:
          attribute:
              name: value
....

=== `set`

For some tests, it is necessary to extract a value from the previous `response`, in
order to reuse it in a subsequent `do` and other tests. For instance, when
testing indexing a document without a specified ID:

....
    - do:
        index:
            index: test
            type:  test
    - set:  { _id: id }   # stash the value of `response._id` as `id`
    - do:
        get:
            index: test
            type:  test
            id:    $id    # replace `$id` with the stashed value
    - match: { _id: $id } # the returned `response._id` matches the stashed `id`
....

The last response obtained gets always stashed automatically as a string, called `body`.
This is useful when needing to test apis that return text rather than json (e.g. cat api),
as it allows to treat the whole body as an ordinary string field.

Stashed values can be used in property names, eg:

....
  - do:
      cluster.state: {}

  - set: {master_node: master}

  - do:
      nodes.info:
        metric: [ transport ]

  - is_true: nodes.$master.transport.profiles
....


Note that not only expected values can be retrieved from the stashed values (as in the
example above), but the same goes for actual values:

....
    - match: { $body: /^.+$/ } # the returned `body` matches the provided regex if the body is text
    - match: { $body: {} } # the returned `body` matches the JSON object if the body is JSON
....

The stash should be reset at the beginning of each test file.

=== `transform_and_set`

For some tests, it is necessary to extract a value and transform it from the previous `response`, in
order to reuse it in a subsequent `do` and other tests.
Currently, it only has support for `base64EncodeCredentials`, for unknown transformations it will not
do anything and stash the value as is.
For instance, when testing you may want to base64 encode username and password for
`Basic` authorization header:

....
    - do:
        index:
            index: test
            type:  test
    - transform_and_set:  { login_creds: "#base64EncodeCredentials(user,password)" }   # stash the base64 encoded credentials of `response.user` and `response.password` as `login_creds`
    - do:
        headers:
            Authorization: Basic ${login_creds} # replace `$login_creds` with the stashed value
        get:
            index: test
            type:  test
....

Stashed values can be used as described in the `set` section

=== `is_true`

The specified key exists and has a true value (ie not `0`, `false`, `undefined`, `null`
or the empty string), eg:

....
    - is_true:  fields.foo  # the foo key exists in the fields hash and is "true"
....

=== `is_false`

The specified key doesn't exist or has a false value (ie `0`, `false`, `undefined`,
`null` or the empty string), eg:

....
    - is_false:  fields._source  # the _source key doesn't exist in the fields hash or is "false"
....

=== `match`

Used to compare two variables (could be scalars, arrays or hashes). The two variables
should be identical, eg:

....
    - match: { _source: { foo: bar }}
....

Supports also regular expressions with flag X for more readability (accepts whitespaces and comments):

....
  - match:
      $body: >
               /^  epoch  \s+  timestamp          \s+  count  \s+  \n
                   \d+    \s+  \d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}  \s+  \d+    \s+  \n  $/
....

**Note:** `$body` is used to refer to the last obtained response body as a string, while `''` refers to the parsed representation (parsed into a Map by the Java runner for instance). Having the raw string response is for example useful when testing cat APIs.

=== `lt` and `gt`

Compares two numeric values, eg:

....
    - lt: { foo: 10000 }  # the `foo` value is less than 10,000
....

=== `lte` and `gte`

Compares two numeric values, eg:

....
    - lte: { foo: 10000 }  # the `foo` value is less than or equal to 10,000
....

=== `length`

This depends on the data type of the value being examined, eg:

....
    - length: { _id: 22    }   # the `_id` string is 22 chars long
    - length: { _tokens: 3 }   # the `_tokens` array has 3 elements
    - length: { _source: 5 }   # the `_source` hash has 5 keys
....

Commit message:

Add integration tests for filters (#69439)
Revamps the integration tests for the `filter` agg to be more clear and
builds integration tests for the `fitlers` agg. Both of these
integration tests are fairly basic but they do assert that the aggs
work.

rest-api-spec/src/yamlRestTest/resources/rest-api-spec/test/README.asciidoc, after:

Test Suite:
===========

[NOTE]
.Required settings
=======================================
Certain tests require specific settings to be applied to the
Elasticsearch instance in order to pass. You should run
Elasticsearch as follows:

[source,sh]
---------------------
bin/elasticsearch -Enode.attr.testattr=test -Epath.repo=/tmp -Erepositories.url.allowed_urls='http://snapshot.*'
---------------------

=======================================

Test file structure
--------------------

A YAML test file consists of:

- an optional `setup` section, followed by
- an optional `teardown` section, followed by
- one or more test sections

For instance:

    setup:
      - do: ....
      - do: ....

    ---
    teardown:
      - do: ....

    ---
    "First test":
      - do: ...
      - match: ...

    ---
    "Second test":
      - do: ...
      - match: ...


A `setup` section contains a list of commands to run before each test
section in order to setup the same environment for each test section.

A `teardown` section contains a list of commands to run after each test
section in order to setup the same environment for each test section. This
may be needed for modifications made by the test that are not cleared by the
deletion of indices and templates.

A test section represents an independent test, containing multiple `do`
statements and assertions. The contents of a test section must be run in
order, but individual test sections may be run in any order, as follows:

1. run `setup` (if any)
2. reset the `response` var and the `stash` (see below)
2. run test contents
3. run `teardown` (if any)
4. delete all indices and all templates

Dot notation:
-------------
Dot notation is used for (1) method calls and (2) hierarchical data structures. For
instance, a method call like `cluster.health` would do the equivalent of:

    client.cluster.health(...params...)

A test against `_tokens.1.token` would examine the `token` key, in the second element
of the `tokens` array, inside the `response` var (see below):

    $val = $response->{tokens}[1]{token}  # Perl syntax roolz!

If one of the levels (eg `tokens`) does not exist, it should return an undefined value.
If no field name is given (ie the empty string) then return the current
$val -- used for testing the whole response body.

Use \. to specify paths that actually contain '.' in the key name, for example
in the `indices.get_settings` API.

Skipping tests:
---------------
If a test section should only be run on certain versions of Elasticsearch,
then the first entry in the section (after the title) should be called
`skip`, and should contain the range of versions to be
skipped, and the reason why the tests are skipped. For instance:

....
    "Parent":
     - skip:
          version:     "0.20.1 - 0.90.2"
          reason:      Delete ignores the parent param

     - do:
       ... test definitions ...
....

All tests in the file following the skip statement should be skipped if:
`min <= current <= max`.

The `version` range can leave either bound empty, which means "open ended".
For instance:
....
    "Parent":
     - skip:
          version:     "1.0.0.Beta1 - "
          reason:      Delete ignores the parent param

     - do:
       ... test definitions ...
....

The value for version can also be `all`, to skip in any version of
Elasticsearch. This can be used for example when a feature is being implemented
or awaiting a fix.

`skip` can also be used at the top level of the file in the `setup` block, so
all the tests in a file will be skipped if the condition applies.

The skip section can also be used to list new features that need to be
supported in order to run a test. This way the up-to-date runners will
run the test, while the ones that don't support the feature yet can
temporarily skip it, and avoid having lots of test failures in the meantime.
Once all runners have implemented the feature, it can be declared supported
by default, thus the related skip sections can be removed from the tests.

The skip section can also be used to selectively mute tests in certain
cases where they would otherwise fail, see `default_shards` and `fips_140`.

....
    "Parent":
     - skip:
          features:    regex

     - do:
       ... test definitions ...
....

The `features` field can either be a string or an array of strings.

The skip section can also be used to mute tests for certain operating systems.
This way it is not necessary to mute the whole test if a operating system
specific problem appears.

The operating system is taken from the pretty name that elasticsearch reports
using the `GET /_nodes` API. To obtain the name from a CI build grep the logs
for:

`initializing client, minimum es version`

When muting by operating system, a reason is mandatory and features must contain
skip_os:

....
    "Parent":
     - skip:
          features: skip_os
          os:       debian-8
          reason:   memory accounting problems on debian 8, see gh#xyz

     - do:
       ... test definitions ...
....

The `os` field can either be a string or an array of strings.

The skip section requires to specify either a `version`, `features` or `os` list.

=== Available Features

=== `xpack`
Requires x-pack to be enabled on the `Elasticsearch` instance the rest test is running against

=== `no_xpack`
Requires the test to run against an oss distribution of `Elasticsearch`

=== `catch_unauthorized`

Runner supports `catch: unauthorized` on a `do` operator.

=== `default_shards`

This test can only run if the cluster is running with the distributions default number of shards.

The Java test runner introduces randomness and sometimes overrides the default number of shards to `2`.
If the default number of shards is changed, test marked with this feature should *not* run

=== `headers`

The runner is able to set per request headers on the `do` operation

=== `node_selector`

Indicates the runner can parse `node_selector` under the `do` operator and use its metadata to select the node to
perform the `do` operation on.

=== `stash_in_key`

Allows you to use a stashed value in any key of an object during a `match` assertion

....
- set: {nodes.$master.http.publish_address: host}
- match:
    $body:
      {
        "nodes": {
          $host: {
            ... stuff in here ...
          }
        }
     }
....

=== `stash_in_path`

Allows a stashed value to be referenced in path lookups as a single token. E.g:

....
path.$stash.value
....

=== `embedded_stash_key`

Allows a stashed key to appear anywhere in the path (note the placeholder needs to be within curly brackets too in this case):

....
field1.e${placeholder}ments.element1
....

=== `stash_path_replace`
Used only in the doc snippet tests. Allow you to do ease replacements using a special `$_path` marker.

....
// TESTRESPONSEs/somevalue/$body.${_path}/ to mean "replace
somevalue with whatever is the response in the same position."
....

=== `warnings`

The runner can assert specific warnings headers are returned by Elasticsearch through the `warning:` assertations
under `do:`  operations. The test will fail if the warning is not found.

=== `warnings_regex`

The same as `warnings`, but matches warning headers with the given regular expression.


=== `allowed_warnings`

The runner will allow specific warnings headers to be returned by Elasticsearch through the `allowed_warning:` assertations
under `do:`  operations. The test will not fail if the warning is not found.

=== `allowed_warnings_regex`

The same as `allowed_warnings`, but matches warning headers with the given regular expression.

=== `yaml`

The runner is able to send and receive `application/yaml` and perform all assertions on the returned data.

=== `contains`

Asserts an array of object contains an object with a property set to a certain value. e.g:

...
contains:  { nodes.$master.plugins: { name: painless-whitelist } }
...

Asserts the plugins array contains an object with a `name` property with the value `painless-whitelist`

=== `transform_and_set`

Supports the `transform_and_set` operator as described in this document.

=== `arbitrary_key`

Allows you to stash an arbitrary key from a returned map e.g:

....
- set:
    nodes._arbitrary_key_: node_id
....

This means: Stash any of the keys returned under `nodes` as `$node_id`

=== `fips_140`

This test should not be run when the test cluster is set in FIPS 140 mode.

Required operators:
-------------------

=== `do`

The `do` operator calls a method on the client. For instance:

....
    - do:
        cluster.health:
            level: shards
....

The response from the `do` operator should be stored in the `response` var, which
is reset (1) at the beginning of a file or (2) on the next `do`.

If the arguments to `do` include `catch`, then we are expecting an error, which should
be caught and tested. For instance:

....
    - do:
        catch:        missing
        get:
            index:    test
            type:    test
            id:        1
....

The argument to `catch` can be any of:

[horizontal]
`bad_request`::     a 400 response from ES
`unauthorized`::    a 401 response from ES
`forbidden`::       a 403 response from ES
`missing`::         a 404 response from ES
`request_timeout`:: a 408 response from ES
`conflict`::        a 409 response from ES
`request`::         a 4xx-5xx error response from ES, not equal to any named response
                    above
`unavailable`::     a 503 response from ES
`param`::           a client-side error indicating an unknown parameter has been passed
                    to the method
`/foo bar/`::       the text of the error message matches this regular expression

If `catch` is specified, then the `response` var must be cleared, and the test
should fail if no error is thrown.

If the arguments to `do` include `warnings` then we are expecting a `Warning`
header to come back from the request. If the arguments *don't* include a
`warnings` argument then we *don't* expect the response to include a `Warning`
header. The warnings must match exactly. Using it looks like this:

....
    - do:
        warnings:
            - '[index] is deprecated'
            - quotes are not required because yaml
            - but this argument is always a list, never a single string
            - no matter how many warnings you expect
        get:
            index:    test
            type:    test
            id:        1
....

If the arguments to `do` include `allowed_warnings` then matching `Warning`
headers do not fail the request. Unlike the `warnings` argument, these aren't
expected so much as "allowed". This usually comes up in backwards compatibility
testing. Using it looks like this:

....
    - do:
        allowed_warnings:
            - some warning
            - this argument is also always a list, never a single string
            - no matter how many warnings you expect
        get:
            index:    test
            type:    test
            id:        1
....

If the arguments to `do` include `node_selector` then the request is only
sent to nodes that match the `node_selector`. It looks like this:

....
"test id":
 - skip:
      features: node_selector
 - do:
      node_selector:
          version: " - 6.9.99"
      index:
          index:  test-weird-index-中文
          type:   weird.type
          id:     1
          body:   { foo: bar }
....

If you list multiple selectors then the request will only go to nodes that
match all of those selectors. The following selectors are supported:

- `version`: Only nodes who's version is within the range will receive the
request. The syntax for the pattern is the same as when `version` is within
`skip` but also supports `current` which selects nodes of the current version.
`current` is useful when running mixed version tests if the results vary based
on the version of the node that received the request.
- `attribute`: Only nodes that have an attribute matching the name and value
of the provided attribute match.
Looks like:
....
      node_selector:
          attribute:
              name: value
....

=== `set`

For some tests, it is necessary to extract a value from the previous `response`, in
order to reuse it in a subsequent `do` and other tests. For instance, when
testing indexing a document without a specified ID:

....
    - do:
        index:
            index: test
            type:  test
    - set:  { _id: id }   # stash the value of `response._id` as `id`
    - do:
        get:
            index: test
            type:  test
            id:    $id    # replace `$id` with the stashed value
    - match: { _id: $id } # the returned `response._id` matches the stashed `id`
....

The last response obtained gets always stashed automatically as a string, called `body`.
This is useful when needing to test apis that return text rather than json (e.g. cat api),
as it allows to treat the whole body as an ordinary string field.

Stashed values can be used in property names, eg:

....
  - do:
      cluster.state: {}

  - set: {master_node: master}

  - do:
      nodes.info:
        metric: [ transport ]

  - is_true: nodes.$master.transport.profiles
....


Note that not only expected values can be retrieved from the stashed values (as in the
example above), but the same goes for actual values:

....
    - match: { $body: /^.+$/ } # the returned `body` matches the provided regex if the body is text
    - match: { $body: {} } # the returned `body` matches the JSON object if the body is JSON
....

The stash should be reset at the beginning of each test file.

=== `transform_and_set`

For some tests, it is necessary to extract a value and transform it from the previous `response`, in
order to reuse it in a subsequent `do` and other tests.
Currently, it only has support for `base64EncodeCredentials`, for unknown transformations it will not
do anything and stash the value as is.
For instance, when testing you may want to base64 encode username and password for
`Basic` authorization header:

....
    - do:
        index:
            index: test
            type:  test
    - transform_and_set:  { login_creds: "#base64EncodeCredentials(user,password)" }   # stash the base64 encoded credentials of `response.user` and `response.password` as `login_creds`
    - do:
        headers:
            Authorization: Basic ${login_creds} # replace `$login_creds` with the stashed value
        get:
            index: test
            type:  test
....

Stashed values can be used as described in the `set` section

=== `is_true`

The specified key exists and has a true value (ie not `0`, `false`, `undefined`, `null`
or the empty string), eg:

....
    - is_true:  fields.foo  # the foo key exists in the fields hash and is "true"
....

=== `is_false`

The specified key doesn't exist or has a false value (ie `0`, `false`, `undefined`,
`null` or the empty string), eg:

....
    - is_false:  fields._source  # the _source key doesn't exist in the fields hash or is "false"
....

=== `match`

Used to compare two variables (could be scalars, arrays or hashes). The two variables
should be identical, eg:

....
    - match: { _source: { foo: bar }}
....

Supports also regular expressions with flag X for more readability (accepts whitespaces and comments):

....
  - match:
      $body: >
               /^  epoch  \s+  timestamp          \s+  count  \s+  \n
                   \d+    \s+  \d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}  \s+  \d+    \s+  \n  $/
....

**Note:** `$body` is used to refer to the last obtained response body as a string, while `''` refers to the parsed representation (parsed into a Map by the Java runner for instance). Having the raw string response is for example useful when testing cat APIs.

=== `lt` and `gt`

Compares two numeric values, eg:

....
    - lt: { foo: 10000 }  # the `foo` value is less than 10,000
....

=== `lte` and `gte`

Compares two numeric values, eg:

....
    - lte: { foo: 10000 }  # the `foo` value is less than or equal to 10,000
....

=== `length`

This depends on the data type of the value being examined, eg:

....
    - length: { _id: 22    }   # the `_id` string is 22 chars long
    - length: { _tokens: 3 }   # the `_tokens` array has 3 elements
    - length: { _source: 5 }   # the `_source` hash has 5 keys
....
